Data Source

Raw data for this project was collected from UCI Machine Learning Repository: Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems. https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip 

Background on Study

•	Data was obtained by recordings 30 human subjects carrying out daily activities with a waist-mounted smartphone embedded with inertial sensors. A total of 6 activities were recorded: LAYING, SITTING, STANDING, WALKING, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, WALKING_UPSTAIRS. Signals were captured using a 3-axial time domain from accelerometer and gyroscope. 
•	The collected data was divided into two datasets: training (70%) and testing (30%).

Variables

A total of 17 variables were estimated from the study.

•	mean(): Mean value

•	std(): Standard deviation

•	mad(): Median absolute deviation 

•	max(): Largest value in array

•	min(): Smallest value in array

•	sma(): Signal magnitude area

•	energy(): Energy measure. Sum of the squares divided by the number of values. 

•	iqr(): Interquartile range 

•	entropy(): Signal entropy

•	arCoeff(): Autoregression coefficients with Burg order equal to 4

•	correlation(): Correlation coefficient between two signals

•	maxInds(): Index of the frequency component with largest magnitude

•	meanFreq(): Weighted average of the frequency components to obtain a mean frequency

•	skewness(): Skewness of the frequency domain signal 

•	kurtosis(): Kurtosis of the frequency domain signal 

•	bandsEnergy(): Energy of a frequency interval within the 64 bins of the FFT of each window.

•	angle(): Angle between some vectors.

Data Handling and Manipulation

•	The downloaded data was unzipped in the current working directory of R session generating a folder called: "UCI HAD Dataset". This folder contained two subfolders: Train and Test and four text files/documents: features, activity_labels, features_info, and README.  Then the data was stored in different variables to be processed.

Step1. Merging Training and test data sets to create a one dataset

•	Both Training and Testing datasets were merged into one dataset called "signalData". First training-related dataset (X_train.txt, y_train.txt, subject_train.txt) were put in a dataset called: "trainSignalData". Then all testing-related datasets (X_test.txt, y_test.txt, subject_test.txt) were merge into one dataset called: "testSignalData". 

Step2. Measurements on the mean and standard deviation were extracted for each measurement


•	Using the merged dataset ("signalData") values of the mean and standard deviation were calculated for variables containing "mean" or "std" and saved in a dataset called: "signalDataMeanStd"


Step3. Using Descriptive activity names to name the activities in the dataset
•	Activity "Id" column was used to lookup the activity_labels document.

Step4. Appropriately labels the dataset with descriptive variable names

•	In this step, some cleaning and more appropriate labeling were conducted on the variables. Activity such as removing parentheses, capitalizing certain words, and expanding certain abbreviated words (e.g., 'Acc',"Acceleration" , 'Gyro',"AngularSpeed") were carried out.

Step5 Creating a tidy dataset 

The tidy dataset has the following characteristics: 
•	Dimensions 10299 Obs. and 81 variables.
•	Six activities 
•	Subjects were identified by numbers from 1 to 30  
A text file called " "signalMeanByActBySub.txt" was created using write.table(). This file can be generated by using: source("run_analysis.R"). The file represents a second tidy dataset with average of each variable for each activity and each subject. By 
